This is a turn-based strategy game played with cards, influenced by games like Magic the Gathering and Duel of Champions.
My goal in this design was to eliminate all sources of randomness/non-determinism and also to avoid making single cards too powerful.

The game is played by two players who attempt to reduce the life of the other player to zero or less by using their cards wisely.
Each player chooses a faction to play and enters the game with a deck of $deckSize cards in total.
The order of cards in this deck is chosen by the player but it cannot be changed once the game has started.
These cards may be any of the cards that are not associated with other factions.
However, all of them are subject to certain limits in their number per deck.
A player's hand and their stacks are only visible to the owner.

Each player starts out with $initialPlayerLife life and an initial hand of $initialHandSize cards, drawn from the top of the deck.
Once a player's life drops to $playerBleedingLifeThreshold or less, the player starts bleeding and loses $bleedingDamage health whenever it's that player's turn.
One player is given the first turn and may play their cards first.
The player's current hand and the stack stacks are concealed from their opponent.
Only cards from a player's current hand may be played.
At the beginning of each new turn (that is, not the first one) the active player must draw one of the top $drawDepth cards of their stack.
If the player is unable to draw a card because he has run out, he takes $suddenDeathDamage damage.
Stacks are likely structured such that the more expensive cards (i.e. they consume large amounts of resources) are closer to the bottom of each stack as they won't be of much use early in the game anyways.
The point of the drawing depth rule is enabling players to counter their opponent in a more controlled way instead of being forced to draw cards in a purely one-dimensional manner.
Players may only play cards during their own turn.

Types of cards available:

1. Unit: spawns a unit under your command
2. Ability: instant effect, one-time use
3. Attachment: permanently attached to a unit, altering its behaviour
4. State: lasts up to the current player's next turn, affects either a lane or the entire board

The resource system is not based on playing resource-generating cards.
Instead, a player has the choice of upgrading only up to one attribute per turn, independently of their hand.
These attributes determine what cards a player may play.
They are not resources themselves.
Once the attribute requirements of a card have been met, any number of them can be played, depending on the resources remaining for this turn and the cost of playing the card.
Each attribute has an initial value of 1.
The actual resource spent is a unified resource called action points.
The number of action points granted to a player depends on what turn it is.
They are equal to $actionPoints(turn).
This seemingly asymmetrical distribution is also an attempt at balancing out a first turn advantage.
If the player decides not to upgrade an attribute, they are eligible for spending action points to draw additional cards.
Drawing a card costs $cardDrawingCost(draw).

Attributes:

1. Command: requirement for units
2. Wisdom: requirement for attachments and abilities pertaining to units/the opponent
3. Deceit: requirement for states and abilities pertaining to deck control

The board is subdivided into two symmetrical sides, each one of which is assigned to one of the two players.
Each side features $laneCount lanes with $laneDepth positions each.
Each one of these positions may be occupied by up to one unit of that player.
There is also an additional center position for each lane, which can be occupied by only one player at a time, by up to one unit.
This center position costs an additional action point to deploy to and also costs an action point to move to.
Both players may move to the center position with a unit that had already been deployed.

A player may only have units from their faction or the neutral faction in their deck.
In general a unit may either attack or perform a move in a turn, not both.
A unit that was deployed in the current turn can usually not do anything in this turn.
A unit may be moved to any free position in its current lane or one of the two adjacent lanes on the player's side of the board.
Flying creatures can move as far as two lanes from the current lane.
When a unit attacks, the target takes damage equal to the attack value of the unit.
Unless the attacking unit is ranged or the enemy unit dies in the attack, the attacker takes damage equal to the defence value of the target unit.
Damage dealt to a unit is permanent.
Its life does not automatically recover at the end of a turn.
If attack is zero or less, this unit is unable to attack.
When a unit's life is reduced to zero or less, it dies and is removed from the board.
The target of an attack of a unit may be the player if the enemy's corresponding lane is empty.
Otherwise it must be an enemy unit that can be targeted by this unit.

A regular unit (i.e. a melee unit, but it's not a unit flag as it is the default type of unit) can only attack the first enemy unit in its lane.
If there is another friendly unit in front of it, it is considered "blocked" and its attack is temporarily reduced by one.
A ranged unit cannot be blocked and also does not take defensive damage when it attacks.
It can also target any enemy unit in the lane.
A flying unit cannot be blocked and can target any enemy unit in its lane or one of the two adjacent lanes.

Primary properties of units:

1. Faction
2. Deck limit
3. Attribute requirements
4. Action points
5. Attack
6. Defence
7. Life 
8. Flags

Optional unit flags:

Armour(n): reduces the damage from attacks by units by n, does not reduce damage from abilities
Charge: if there is another unit behind the victim of an attack in the lane, it will take damage, too, without causing defensive damage
Entangle: immobilises enemy unit for one turn when dealing damage
Flying: can target any enemy unit in its lane and the two adjacent lanes
Heal(n): heals up to n missing life on the friendly unit in front of it
Huge: prevents attacks by ranged and flying units on the friendly units in the lane positioned behind it
Immune: immune to the effects of abilities used against it, cannot have attachments used on it
Initiative: able to perform an attack right after deployment
Life steal: this unit heals whenever it causes damage and the amount healed is equal to the damage dealt, the healing is applied before 
Overrun: when an enemy unit is killed the remaining damage is applied to the unit behind it or, if there is no such unit, to the enemy player
Poison(n): when causing damage, the target will become poisoned for n turns, taking one damage from the poison in each turn of the target's owner, poison damage does not stack, only the number of turns can be refreshed, they do not stack additively either
Ranged: does not suffer the damage penalty from being blocked and can target any enemy unit in its lane
Reflect damage: reflects all damage dealt to it to the attacker, this is in addition to potential defensive damage
Regeneration(n): tregenerates n life at the beginning of every turn of its owner
Rush: can perform an attack after moving, but cannot attack and then move
Shield(n): can block up to n damage until the shield is destroyed, it regenerates at the beginning of every turn of its owner, can also block damage from abilities
Suicidal: dies after performing one attack
Unstable: takes one damage at the beginning of every turn of the enemy player
Vengeance: always deals defensive damage, even if it dies in the attack
Weaken(n): reduces enemy damage by n down to a minimum of 0 for one turn when dealing damage